docs(performance): added highlight article for improved concurrency (#10469)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2021-12-14-improved-concurrency-model.md

---
date: "2021-12-14"
title: "Improved concurrency model"
description: "New parallel processing with improved performance"
authors: ["barieom"]
pr_numbers: [10265]
release: "0.19.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: announcement
---

We've released an improved concurrency model that provides measurable performance
improvements and enables more efficient vertical scaling.

> Previously, Vector set the limit to active tasks to the number of available CPUs
> in a given environment. Transforms were run sequentially, which made transforms
> a bottleneck in Vector pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, Vector was limited to executing transforms on a single thread, which led to them often being the bottleneck in Vector pipelines.
```

Reviewer 2: I would say something like `limited to using a single thread per transform`.

With this new release, Vector will perform faster when a transform is a bottleneck,
assuming that more CPUs are available to share their work. This works by Vector
determine whether an individual transform will be processed in parallel when there

> is a sufficient load to the environment.

Reviewer: @lukesteensen would it be worth noting in the docs which transforms support parallelization and which don't?

Reviewer 2: Yeah we could do that. The current list is:
```
src/transforms/tokenizer.rs
src/transforms/regex_parser.rs
src/transforms/metric_to_log.rs
src/transforms/filter.rs
src/transforms/grok_parser.rs
src/transforms/key_value_parser.rs
src/transforms/json_parser.rs
src/transforms/logfmt_parser.rs
src/transforms/log_to_metric.rs
src/transforms/remap.rs
src/transforms/aws_cloudwatch_logs_subscription_parser.rs
```

Author: I folded this list into the article!

Reviewer: We can probably leave out the deprecated transforms from this list. I'll trim it down.

In my original comment, I was thinking about having this be a cue metadata field to be rendered on the website though. Do you think something like that would be reasonable?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about it being a metadata field in cue. It feels a little bit like an implementation detail to me, but I'm also not the target audience for that data. I don't have a strong opinion either way.

Reviewer 3: I agree, we don't need communicate this to users in that way. Concurrency should "just work".

> To expand, this improvement works by spinning up multiple short-lived tasks
> that concurrently run the same transform logic on separate batches of events.
> In other words, they perform the processing for chunks of events at a time and
> allowing a certain number of those tasks to be active at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This improvement works by spinning up multiple short-lived tasks
that concurrently run the same transform logic on separate batches of events.
```

I think those two sentences were saying the same thing. You could maybe move this sentence up into the above paragraph now rather than having it stand alone.
